docs/gl_objects/mrs.rst, before:

##############
Merge requests
##############

You can use merge requests to notify a project that a branch is ready for
merging. The owner of the target projet can accept the merge request.

Merge requests are linked to projects, but they can be listed globally or for
groups.

Group and global listing
========================

Reference
---------

* v4 API:

  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.GroupMergeRequest`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.GroupMergeRequestManager`
  + :attr:`gitlab.v4.objects.Group.mergerequests`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.MergeRequest`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.MergeRequestManager`
  + :attr:`gitlab.Gtilab.mergerequests`

* GitLab API: https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/merge_requests.html

Examples
--------

List the merge requests available on the GitLab server::

    mrs = gl.mergerequests.list()

List the merge requests for a group::

    group = gl.groups.get('mygroup')
    mrs = group.mergerequests.list()

To edit or delete a merge request, create a ``ProjectMergeRequest`` object
first::

    mr = group.mergerequests.list()[0]  # pick the first MR
    project = gl.projects.get(mr.project_id, lazy=True)
    editable_mr = project.mergerequests.get(mr.iid)

Project merge requests
======================

Reference
---------

* v4 API:

  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.ProjectMergeRequest`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.ProjectMergeRequestManager`
  + :attr:`gitlab.v4.objects.Project.mergerequests`

* GitLab API: https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/merge_requests.html

Examples
--------

List MRs for a project::

    mrs = project.mergerequests.list()

You can filter and sort the returned list with the following parameters:

* ``state``: state of the MR. It can be one of ``all``, ``merged``, ``opened``
  or ``closed``
* ``order_by``: sort by ``created_at`` or ``updated_at``
* ``sort``: sort order (``asc`` or ``desc``)

For example::

    mrs = project.mergerequests.list(state='merged', order_by='updated_at')

Get a single MR::

    mr = project.mergerequests.get(mr_id)

Create a MR::

    mr = project.mergerequests.create({'source_branch': 'cool_feature',
                                       'target_branch': 'master',
                                       'title': 'merge cool feature',
                                       'labels': ['label1', 'label2']})

Update a MR::

    mr.description = 'New description'
    mr.labels = ['foo', 'bar']
    mr.save()

Change the state of a MR (close or reopen)::

    mr.state_event = 'close'  # or 'reopen'
    mr.save()

Delete a MR::

    project.mergerequests.delete(mr_id)
    # or
    mr.delete()

Accept a MR::

    mr.merge()

Cancel a MR when the build succeeds::

    mr.cancel_merge_when_pipeline_succeeds()

List commits of a MR::

    commits = mr.commits()

List the changes of a MR::

    changes = mr.changes()

List the pipelines for a MR::

    pipelines = mr.pipelines()

List issues that will close on merge::

    mr.closes_issues()

Subscribe to / unsubscribe from a MR::

    mr.subscribe()
    mr.unsubscribe()

Mark a MR as todo::

    mr.todo()

List the diffs for a merge request::

    diffs = mr.diffs.list()

Get a diff for a merge request::

    diff = mr.diffs.get(diff_id)

Get time tracking stats::

    merge request.time_stats()

On recent versions of Gitlab the time stats are also returned as a merge
request object attribute::

    mr = project.mergerequests.get(id)
    print(mr.attributes['time_stats'])

Set a time estimate for a merge request::

    mr.time_estimate('3h30m')

Reset a time estimate for a merge request::

    mr.reset_time_estimate()

Add spent time for a merge request::

    mr.add_spent_time('3h30m')

Reset spent time for a merge request::

    mr.reset_spent_time()

Get user agent detail for the issue (admin only)::

    detail = issue.user_agent_detail()

Commit message:

[docs] Add/updates notes about read-only objects
MR and issues attached to the root API or groups are not editable.
Provide notes describing how to manage this.

docs/gl_objects/mrs.rst, after:

##############
Merge requests
##############

You can use merge requests to notify a project that a branch is ready for
merging. The owner of the target projet can accept the merge request.

Merge requests are linked to projects, but they can be listed globally or for
groups.

Group and global listing
========================

Reference
---------

* v4 API:

  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.GroupMergeRequest`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.GroupMergeRequestManager`
  + :attr:`gitlab.v4.objects.Group.mergerequests`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.MergeRequest`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.MergeRequestManager`
  + :attr:`gitlab.Gtilab.mergerequests`

* GitLab API: https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/merge_requests.html

Examples
--------

List the merge requests available on the GitLab server::

    mrs = gl.mergerequests.list()

List the merge requests for a group::

    group = gl.groups.get('mygroup')
    mrs = group.mergerequests.list()

.. note::

   It is not possible to edit or delete ``MergeRequest`` and
   ``GroupMergeRequest`` objects. You need to create a ``ProjectMergeRequest``
   object to apply changes::

       mr = group.mergerequests.list()[0]
       project = gl.projects.get(mr.project_id, lazy=True)
       editable_mr = project.mergerequests.get(mr.iid, lazy=True)
       editable_mr.title = updated_title
       editable_mr.save()

Project merge requests
======================

Reference
---------

* v4 API:

  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.ProjectMergeRequest`
  + :class:`gitlab.v4.objects.ProjectMergeRequestManager`
  + :attr:`gitlab.v4.objects.Project.mergerequests`

* GitLab API: https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/merge_requests.html

Examples
--------

List MRs for a project::

    mrs = project.mergerequests.list()

You can filter and sort the returned list with the following parameters:

* ``state``: state of the MR. It can be one of ``all``, ``merged``, ``opened``
  or ``closed``
* ``order_by``: sort by ``created_at`` or ``updated_at``
* ``sort``: sort order (``asc`` or ``desc``)

For example::

    mrs = project.mergerequests.list(state='merged', order_by='updated_at')

Get a single MR::

    mr = project.mergerequests.get(mr_id)

Create a MR::

    mr = project.mergerequests.create({'source_branch': 'cool_feature',
                                       'target_branch': 'master',
                                       'title': 'merge cool feature',
                                       'labels': ['label1', 'label2']})

Update a MR::

    mr.description = 'New description'
    mr.labels = ['foo', 'bar']
    mr.save()

Change the state of a MR (close or reopen)::

    mr.state_event = 'close'  # or 'reopen'
    mr.save()

Delete a MR::

    project.mergerequests.delete(mr_id)
    # or
    mr.delete()

Accept a MR::

    mr.merge()

Cancel a MR when the build succeeds::

    mr.cancel_merge_when_pipeline_succeeds()

List commits of a MR::

    commits = mr.commits()

List the changes of a MR::

    changes = mr.changes()

List the pipelines for a MR::

    pipelines = mr.pipelines()

List issues that will close on merge::

    mr.closes_issues()

Subscribe to / unsubscribe from a MR::

    mr.subscribe()
    mr.unsubscribe()

Mark a MR as todo::

    mr.todo()

List the diffs for a merge request::

    diffs = mr.diffs.list()

Get a diff for a merge request::

    diff = mr.diffs.get(diff_id)

Get time tracking stats::

    merge request.time_stats()

On recent versions of Gitlab the time stats are also returned as a merge
request object attribute::

    mr = project.mergerequests.get(id)
    print(mr.attributes['time_stats'])

Set a time estimate for a merge request::

    mr.time_estimate('3h30m')

Reset a time estimate for a merge request::

    mr.reset_time_estimate()

Add spent time for a merge request::

    mr.add_spent_time('3h30m')

Reset spent time for a merge request::

    mr.reset_spent_time()

Get user agent detail for the issue (admin only)::

    detail = issue.user_agent_detail()
