docs/faq.rst, before:

###
FAQ
###

I cannot edit the merge request / issue I've just retrieved
    It is likely that you used a ``MergeRequest``, ``GroupMergeRequest``,
    ``Issue`` or ``GroupIssue`` object. These objects cannot be edited. But you
    can create a new ``ProjectMergeRequest`` or ``ProjectIssue`` object to
    apply changes. For example::

        issue = gl.issues.list()[0]
        project = gl.projects.get(issue.project_id, lazy=True)
        editable_issue = project.issues.get(issue.iid, lazy=True)
        # you can now edit the object

    See the :ref:`merge requests example <merge_requests_examples>` and the
    :ref:`issues examples <issues_examples>`.

How can I clone the repository of a project?
    python-gitlab doesn't provide an API to clone a project. You have to use a
    git library or call the ``git`` command.

    The git URI is exposed in the ``ssh_url_to_repo`` attribute of ``Project``
    objects.

    Example::

        import subprocess

        project = gl.projects.create(data)  # or gl.projects.get(project_id)
        print(project.attributes)  # displays all the attributes
        git_url = project.ssh_url_to_repo
        subprocess.call(['git', 'clone', git_url])

I get an ``AttributeError`` when accessing attributes after ``save()`` or ``refresh()``.
    You are most likely trying to access an attribute that was not returned
    by the server on the second request. Please look at the documentation in
    :ref:`object_attributes` to see how to avoid this.

Commit message:

chore: attempt to be more informative for missing attributes
A commonly reported issue from users on Gitter is that they get an
AttributeError for an attribute that should be present. This is often
caused due to the fact that they used the `list()` method to retrieve
the object and objects retrieved this way often only have a subset of
the full data.

Add more details in the AttributeError message that explains the
situation to users. This will hopefully allow them to resolve the
issue.

Update the FAQ in the docs to add a section discussing the issue.

Closes #1138

docs/faq.rst, after:

###
FAQ
###

I cannot edit the merge request / issue I've just retrieved
    It is likely that you used a ``MergeRequest``, ``GroupMergeRequest``,
    ``Issue`` or ``GroupIssue`` object. These objects cannot be edited. But you
    can create a new ``ProjectMergeRequest`` or ``ProjectIssue`` object to
    apply changes. For example::

        issue = gl.issues.list()[0]
        project = gl.projects.get(issue.project_id, lazy=True)
        editable_issue = project.issues.get(issue.iid, lazy=True)
        # you can now edit the object

    See the :ref:`merge requests example <merge_requests_examples>` and the
    :ref:`issues examples <issues_examples>`.

.. _attribute_error_list:

I get an ``AttributeError`` when accessing attributes of an object retrieved via a ``list()`` call.
    Fetching a list of objects, doesn’t always include all attributes in the
    objects. To retrieve an object with all attributes use a ``get()`` call.

    Example with projects::

        for projects in gl.projects.list():
            # Retrieve project object with all attributes
            project = gl.projects.get(project.id)

How can I clone the repository of a project?
    python-gitlab doesn't provide an API to clone a project. You have to use a
    git library or call the ``git`` command.

    The git URI is exposed in the ``ssh_url_to_repo`` attribute of ``Project``
    objects.

    Example::

        import subprocess

        project = gl.projects.create(data)  # or gl.projects.get(project_id)
        print(project.attributes)  # displays all the attributes
        git_url = project.ssh_url_to_repo
        subprocess.call(['git', 'clone', git_url])

I get an ``AttributeError`` when accessing attributes after ``save()`` or ``refresh()``.
    You are most likely trying to access an attribute that was not returned
    by the server on the second request. Please look at the documentation in
    :ref:`object_attributes` to see how to avoid this.
