docs/switching-to-v4.rst, before:

##########################
Switching to GtiLab API v4
##########################

GitLab provides a new API version (v4) since its 9.0 release. ``python-gitlab``
provides support for this new version, but the python API has been modified to
solve some problems with the existing one.

GitLab will stop supporting the v3 API soon, and you should consider switching
to v4 if you use a recent version of GitLab (>= 9.0), or if you use
http://gitlab.com.

The new v4 API is available in the `rework_api branch on github
<https://github.com/python-gitlab/python-gitlab/tree/rework_api>`_, and will be
released soon.


Using the v4 API
================

To use the new v4 API, explicitly use it in the ``Gitlab`` constructor:

.. code-block:: python

   gl = gitlab.Gitlab(..., api_version=4)


If you use the configuration file, also explicitly define the version:

.. code-block:: ini

   [my_gitlab]
   ...
   api_version = 4


Changes between v3 and v4 API
=============================

For a list of GtiLab (upstream) API changes, see
https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/v3_to_v4.html.

The ``python-gitlab`` API reflects these changes. But also consider the
following important changes in the python API:

* managers and objects don't inherit from ``GitlabObject`` and ``BaseManager``
  anymore. They inherit from :class:`~gitlab.base.RESTManager` and
  :class:`~gitlab.base.RESTObject`.

* You should only use the managers to perform CRUD operations.

  The following v3 code:

  .. code-block:: python

     gl = gitlab.Gitlab(...)
     p = Project(gl, project_id)

  Should be replaced with:

  .. code-block:: python

     gl = gitlab.Gitlab(...)
     p = gl.projects.get(project_id)

* Listing methods (``manager.list()`` for instance) now return generators
  (:class:`~gitlab.base.RESTObjectList`). They handle the calls to the API when
  needed.

  If you need to get all the items at once, use the ``all=True`` parameter:

  .. code-block:: python

     all_projects = gl.projects.list(all=True)

* The "nested" managers (for instance ``gl.project_issues`` or
  ``gl.group_members``) are not available anymore. Their goal was to provide a
  direct way to manage nested objects, and to limit the number of needed API
  calls.

  To limit the number of API calls, you can now use ``get()`` methods with the
  ``lazy=True`` parameter.  This creates shallow objects that provide usual
  managers.

  The following v3 code:

  .. code-block:: python

     issues = gl.project_issues.list(project_id=project_id)

  Should be replaced with:

  .. code-block:: python

     issues = gl.projects.get(project_id, lazy=True).issues.list()

  This will make only one API call, instead of two if ``lazy`` is not used.

* The :class:`~gitlab.Gitlab` folowwing methods should not be used anymore for
  v4:

  + ``list()``
  + ``get()``
  + ``create()``
  + ``update()``
  + ``delete()``

* If you need to perform HTTP requests to the GitLab server (which you
  shouldn't), you can use the following :class:`~gitlab.Gitlab` methods:

  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_request`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_get`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_list`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_post`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_put`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_delete`


Undergoing work
===============

* The ``delete()`` method for objects is not yet available. For now you need to
  use ``manager.delete(obj.id)``.
* The ``page`` and ``per_page`` arguments for listing don't behave as they used
  to. Their behavior will be restored.

Commit message:

functional tests for v4
Update the python tests for v4, and fix the problems raised when running
those tests.

docs/switching-to-v4.rst, after:

##########################
Switching to GtiLab API v4
##########################

GitLab provides a new API version (v4) since its 9.0 release. ``python-gitlab``
provides support for this new version, but the python API has been modified to
solve some problems with the existing one.

GitLab will stop supporting the v3 API soon, and you should consider switching
to v4 if you use a recent version of GitLab (>= 9.0), or if you use
http://gitlab.com.

The new v4 API is available in the `rework_api branch on github
<https://github.com/python-gitlab/python-gitlab/tree/rework_api>`_, and will be
released soon.


Using the v4 API
================

To use the new v4 API, explicitly use it in the ``Gitlab`` constructor:

.. code-block:: python

   gl = gitlab.Gitlab(..., api_version=4)


If you use the configuration file, also explicitly define the version:

.. code-block:: ini

   [my_gitlab]
   ...
   api_version = 4


Changes between v3 and v4 API
=============================

For a list of GtiLab (upstream) API changes, see
https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/v3_to_v4.html.

The ``python-gitlab`` API reflects these changes. But also consider the
following important changes in the python API:

* managers and objects don't inherit from ``GitlabObject`` and ``BaseManager``
  anymore. They inherit from :class:`~gitlab.base.RESTManager` and
  :class:`~gitlab.base.RESTObject`.

* You should only use the managers to perform CRUD operations.

  The following v3 code:

  .. code-block:: python

     gl = gitlab.Gitlab(...)
     p = Project(gl, project_id)

  Should be replaced with:

  .. code-block:: python

     gl = gitlab.Gitlab(...)
     p = gl.projects.get(project_id)

* Listing methods (``manager.list()`` for instance) now return generators
  (:class:`~gitlab.base.RESTObjectList`). They handle the calls to the API when
  needed.

  If you need to get all the items at once, use the ``all=True`` parameter:

  .. code-block:: python

     all_projects = gl.projects.list(all=True)

* The "nested" managers (for instance ``gl.project_issues`` or
  ``gl.group_members``) are not available anymore. Their goal was to provide a
  direct way to manage nested objects, and to limit the number of needed API
  calls.

  To limit the number of API calls, you can now use ``get()`` methods with the
  ``lazy=True`` parameter.  This creates shallow objects that provide usual
  managers.

  The following v3 code:

  .. code-block:: python

     issues = gl.project_issues.list(project_id=project_id)

  Should be replaced with:

  .. code-block:: python

     issues = gl.projects.get(project_id, lazy=True).issues.list()

  This will make only one API call, instead of two if ``lazy`` is not used.

* The :class:`~gitlab.Gitlab` folowwing methods should not be used anymore for
  v4:

  + ``list()``
  + ``get()``
  + ``create()``
  + ``update()``
  + ``delete()``

* If you need to perform HTTP requests to the GitLab server (which you
  shouldn't), you can use the following :class:`~gitlab.Gitlab` methods:

  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_request`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_get`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_list`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_post`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_put`
  + :attr:`~gitlab.Gitlab.http_delete`

* The users ``get_by_username`` method has been removed. It doesn't exist in
  the GitLab API. You can use the ``username`` filter attribute when listing to
  get a similar behavior:

  .. code-block:: python

     user = list(gl.users.list(username='jdoe'))[0]


Undergoing work
===============

* The ``page`` and ``per_page`` arguments for listing don't behave as they used
  to. Their behavior will be restored.
